User Centric Design (UCD) is a design model where the user is the main focus which can be in contrast with the ideas of designers and in particular programmers at times. The core concept is that users know what is best for them, so it becomes crucial to know your target users and get feedback from them that you can use to constantly improve your design. Since the goal is to provide an efficient, effective and comfortable experience for users it is essential to evaluate the usability of ideas and design. Since the volunteers already work with people who could be the target of this website, one way in which this activity can be carried out is to conduct interviews with the users that this website will be designed for and get an idea of their expectations so that the design can be adapted around them. Another concept that is essential to keep in mind is accessibility which simply means being able to provide equal access to all types of users regardless of physical impairments and since we established that these are certainly the type of users that will visit this website it is important to hold high accessibility standards. This often means making the website or product able to work with assistive technologies such as speech recognition, braille displays and screen readers. For example, many ideas were around adding graphics and animations, while these can be great for regular users they can be a cause of frustration for visually impaired people since screen readers can not pick up this type of information. An easy way to fix this is to make sure to always include alternative text in elements that are not textual so that these technologies can read them and provide an accurate description





User Centric Design (UCD) is a design model that places the user at the forefront, sometimes in opposition to the ideas of designers and programmers. The core concept is that users know their needs best, so it becomes imperative to know your target users and get feedback from them that you can use to constantly improve and refine your design. 

Since the goal is to provide an efficient, effective and comfortable experience for users it is essential to evaluate the usability of ideas and design. Knowing that the volunteers already work with people who could be the target audience of this website, one way in which this activity can be carried out is to conduct interviews with the users that this website will be designed for and get an idea of their expectations so that the design can be tailored accordingly. 

Another concept that is essential to keep in mind is accessibility which simply means being able to provide equal access to all types of users regardless of physical impairments and since we established that these are certainly the type of users that will visit this website it is important to hold high accessibility standards. This often means making the website or product able to work with assistive technologies such as speech recognition, braille displays and screen readers. 

For instance, many ideas were around adding graphics and animations. While these can be great for regular users they can be a cause of frustration for visually impaired people since screen readers can not pick up this type of information. An easy way to fix this is to make sure to always include alternative text in elements that are not textual so that these technologies can read them and provide an accurate description