## New highlights added February 6, 2025 at 9:34 AM
- Recall thatan operation (inthiscase, addition of complexnumbers)thatobeys the ﬁrst rule is said to be commutative,and an operation thatobeys the second rule is said to be associative.
#### 1.3Multiplying complexnumbers
- Multiplication of complexnumbers,like addition of complexnumbers,is both commutative and associative.
- Multiplication of complexnumbers is also distributive over addition of complex numbers
- When multiplyingacomplex number z by itself,you shouldwrite z2, ratherthan zz or z × z,just as forrealnumbers.
- If you’re working with the complex numbers,thenit’salsotrue thateach negative real number hastwo square roots. Forexample,the number −3 has the two square roots ±i √ 3, becau
- Square rootsofanegativereal number If d is a positive realnumber, then the square rootsof −d are ±i √ d.
#### 1.4Complex conjugation
- Complexconjugation The complex conjugate of a + bi is a − bi.
  The complexconjugateof z is denoted by z. The operation of transforming z to z is called complex conjugation.
- Notice thatif z is a realnumber, then z = z.So complexconjugation has no eﬀect on real numbers.
- Some properties of complex conjugation z +w = z +w z −w = z −w zw = z w z/w = z/w
- wheneveryou multiply a complexnumberbyits complexconjugate, youobtain arealnumber.
- (A+B)(A−B)= A2 −B2.
- Forany complexnumber z = a + bi, zz = a2 + b2.
#### 1.5Dividingcomplex numbers
- you can simplifyitby multiplyingthe topand bottomofthe fraction by the complexconjugate of the denominator.
- It isn’tpossibleto divide a complexnumberby0,just as it isn’tpossible to divide a realnumberby0.
- ,if z is anon-zero complex number, then the number 1/z is calledthe reciprocal of z.
- When you’re using complexnumbers as base numbers, you shouldbe careful to applyindexlawsonlyincases in which the indices (such as m and n above) are integers.
## New highlights added February 6, 2025 at 6:05 PM
### 2 Geometrywithcomplex numbers
- howcomplexnumbers canberepresented by points in a plane, calledthe complexplane,
#### 2.1The complexplane
- Thecomplex plane The complex plane is a planeinwhich the complexnumber a + bi is representedbythe point(a, b).
  The horizontalaxisiscalled the real axis andthe vertical axis is calledthe imaginaryaxis.
- a unitgrid,which meansthatadjacenthorizontal lines in the grid are separated by one unit, andadjacentverticallines are alsoseparated by oneunit.
- Let’sconsiderwhathappens in the complex plane whenyou addtwo complex numbers.
- youget the complexnumberrepresented by the point (a + c, b + d).
- you can addtwo complex numbers in the complex plane by drawing(or imagining)a parallelogram, as illustrated in Figure 6. This is the parallelogram law
- So if you multiplythe complexnumberrepresented by the point(a, b)by the real number m,thenyou getthe complexnumberrepresented by the point(ma,mb)
- Complexconjugation alsohas asimple geometric interpretation in the complex plane: the number z = a − bi is the imageof z = a + bi under reﬂection in the real axis,
#### 2.2Modulus of a complex number
- e modulus (or absolute value)ofa complex number z,which is denoted by |z|,isits distance from the origin, andisa measure ofits size.
- Modulus of a complex number Let z = a + bi.The modulus |z| of z is itsdistance from the origin, given by |z| =  a2 + b2.
  The pluralof‘modulus’ is moduli.
- zz = a2 + b2.
- The expression a2 + b2 is equal to |z|2,so wehavethe useful identity zz = |z|2.
- |zw|2 = zwzw.
- Youlearned earlier that zw = z w,so |zw|2 = zwzw = zwz w = zzww = |z|2|w|2.
- Hence |zw|2 = |z|2|w|2,and taking square rootsgives the useful identity |zw| = |z||w|.
- |z| =    z ×w w    =    z w    |w|,
-    z w    = |z| |w| .
- Properties of modulus zz = |z|2 |zw| = |z||w|    z w    = |z|
- zz = |z|2 by z,
- 1 z z = |z|2
#### 2.3Argument of a complex number
- Youcan completely specify a particular complex numberbystating its modulus, thatis, itsdistance from the origininthe complexplane, together with the direction in which it liesfrom the origin.
- d by stating a particular angle
- we call an argument of the complexnumber.
- express the complexnumberina helpful form, called polarform,
- Arguments of a complex number An argument of anon-zero complex number z is an angle in radians measured anticlockwisefrom the positive real axis to the line between the originand z.
  The number 0 doesn’thaveanargument.
- In fact,you cansee thateach non-zerocomplexnumberhas inﬁnitely manyarguments, because youcan addany integermultiple of2π to an argument to obtain anotherargument
- Principal argumentofa complex number The principal argument of a non-zero complex number z is the argument of z thatliesinthe interval (−π, π]. Thisangle is denoted by Arg(z).
- In some othertexts, the principalargument is calledthe principal value of theargument
- The methodfor ﬁnding the principalargument of a complexnumberthat doesn’tlie on one ofthe axes is similar to the methodfor ﬁnding the direction of atwo-dimensional vector
## New highlights added February 8, 2025 at 12:33 PM
- andone of itsarguments. Polarformofa complex number Anon-zero complexnumber z is in polarform if it is expressed as z = r(cos θ + i sin θ).
  Here r is the modulus of z,and θ is an argumentof z.
- To converta complex numberfrom polar form to Cartesian form youneed to work outvalues of sine andcosine.
#### 2.5Multiplication and division in polarform
- polar form is more suited for multiplication anddivision.
- Productofcomplex numbers in polarform
  Let z = r(cos θ + i sin θ)and w = s(cos φ + i sin φ). Then
  zw = rs
  
  
  cos(θ + φ)+ i sin(θ + φ
- Youdo the same to ﬁndthe productofthree or more complexnumbers in polar form.
- mber,which gives 1 w = w |w|2 .
- z = w = = = |w|2 r(cos θ + i sin θ) × s(cos φ − i sin φ) s2 r s r s   cos θ cos φ − i cos θ sinφ + i sin θ cos φ − i2 sin θ sinφ   (cos θ cos φ +sin θ sinφ)+ i(sin θ cos φ − cos θ sin φ) . Recall the angle diﬀerenceidentitiesfor sine andcosine, from Section 4of Unit 4: sin(θ − φ)=sin θ cos φ − cos θ sinφ cos(θ − φ)=cos θ cos φ +sin θ sin φ. Usingthese identities we obtain z w = (cos(θ − φ)+ i sin(θ − φ)).
  r s Thisshows thatto divide two complexnumbers in polar form, you divide their moduli and subtract theirarguments.
  Quotientofcomplex numbers in polarform Let z = r(cos θ + i sin θ)and w = s(cos φ + i sin φ). Then z w = (cos(θ − φ)+ i sin(θ − φ)).
  r s zw
#### 2.6DeMoivre’sformula
- powersofcomplexnumbers in polar form.
- De Moivre’s formula Let z = r(cos θ + i sin θ). Then, forany integer n, zn = rn(cos nθ + i sin nθ).
### 3 Polynomial equations
- A polynomialequation is an equation of the form ‘polynomial expression =0’
#### 3.1Quadratic equations
- Althoughsome quadratic equationshaveno realsolutions, everyquadratic equation haseitherone or twosolutionsthatare complexnumbers,which we call complexsolutions.
## New highlights added February 16, 2025 at 1:14 PM
- Thequadraticformula The solutionsofthe quadratic equation az2 + bz + c =0,where a, b and c are real numbers, are given by z = −b ± b2 − 4ac √ .
  2a
- Two complex numbers thatare complexconjugates of each other are together calleda complex conjugate pair.
#### 3.2Roots of complexnumbers
- In general, anysolution z of the equation zn = a, where a is a complexnumberand n is a positive integer,iscalled an nth root
- Let’sstart by lookingatequationsofthe form zn =1,such as z3 =1 and z4 =1.Solutionsofequationsofthisform are called roots ofunity;
- n z5 =1.S
- Let z = r(cos θ + i sin θ). Also, 1= cos0 + i sin0.Sothe equation is (r(cos θ + i sin θ))5 =cos0+ i sin0.
- r5(cos 5θ + i sin5θ)= cos0 + i sin0.
- r5 =1, so r =1.
- 5θ =0+2mπ =2mπ, where m is an integer.
- θ = 2mπ 5 , where m is an integer.
- The solutionsare z0 =cos0+ i sin0 =1 z1 =cos  z2 =cos z3 =cos z4 =cos    2π 5 4π 5 6π 5 8π 5     + i sin + i sin + i sin + i sin     2π 5 4π 5 6π 5 8π 5     .
- Strategy: To ﬁnd the complex solutionsofthe equation zn = a,where a )= 0 1. Write the unknown z in polar form, in terms of an unknown modulus r andanunknown argument θ,and write the number a in polar form.
  2. Substitutethe polar forms of z and a into the equation,and apply de Moivre’s formulatoﬁnd the polar form of the left-hand side.
  3. Compare modulito ﬁnd the value of r.
  4. Compare arguments to ﬁnd n successive possible values of θ.
  5. Hencewrite downthe n possiblevalues of z.
  It is usually convenient to useargumentsinthe interval [0, 2π).
- Foreach non-zero number a,the equation zn = a has n complex solutions, andthese are equallyspaced around a circle centred on the origin.
#### 3.3The fundamental theoremofalgebra
- thefundamental theorem of algebra,which shows thatevery polynomial equation hasatleast one solution.
- if z1 and z2 are the solutionsofthe quadratic equation az2 + bz + c =0 (theremay be only one solution,inwhich case z1 = z2), then you canfactorise the quadratic az2 + bz + c as az2 + bz + c = a(z − z1)(z − z2).
- Thefundamentaltheorem of algebra Everypolynomial anzn + an−1zn−1 + ··· + a1z + a0 of degree n ≥ 1 has a factorisation an(z − z1)(z − z2) ··· (z − zn), where z1,z2,... ,zn are complexnumbers,some of which maybe equal to others.
### 4 Exponential form
- a more conciseversion of polar form,
#### 4.1Euler’s formula
- Thisformulagives a meaning forthe expression eiθ,where θ is a realnumber
- eiθ =1+ iθ + =1+ iθ + (iθ)2 2!
  i2θ2 2! + (iθ)3 3!
  + i3θ3 3! + (iθ)4 4!
  + i4θ4 4! + + (iθ)5 5!
  i5θ5 5! + + (iθ)6 6!
  + i6θ6 6! + i7θ7
- eiθ =1+ iθ − θ2 2! = 1 −  θ2 2! + − i θ4 4! θ3 3! + − θ6 6! θ4 4! + i + ··· + i  θ5 5! −  θ6 6! − i θ − θ3 3! θ7 7! + + ··· θ5 5! − θ7 7! + ··· 
- Therefore eiθ =cos θ + i sin θ.
  Thisequation is Euler’sformula.
- Euler’s formula Let θ be a realnumber. Then eiθ is deﬁnedby Euler’sformula eiθ =cos θ + i sin θ.
- Thisequation,which is alsosometimescalled Euler’sidentity,isone of the mostfamousequationsinmathematics, because it relates the ﬁve fundamental numbers0,1, i, e and π.
- Exponential form of a complex number Anon-zero complexnumber z is in exponentialform if it is expressedas z = reiθ, where r is the modulus of z and θ is an argument of z.
- It’s often bettertouse the exponential form reiθ of acomplex number, ratherthanits polar form r(cos θ + i sin θ), because it’s shorter.
- reiθ × seiφ = rsei(θ+φ).
- Similarly,deMoivre’s formula,
-  reiθ n = rneinθ.
- e−iθ =cos(−θ)+ i sin(−θ).
- cos(−θ)=cos θ andsin(−θ)= − sin θ,
- e−iθ =cos θ − i sin θ
- he complexconjugateof eiθ is e−iθ.
#### 4.2Trigonometric identities from de Moivre’s formulaand Euler’s formula
- Oneway to ﬁnd new trigonometric identities is to usethe special case of de Moivre’s formula
- Special case of de Moivre’s formula cos nθ + i sin nθ =(cos θ + i sin θ)n
- cos θ = sin θ = eiθ + e−iθ 2 eiθ − e−iθ 2i
